.TH brass-assemble 1 "November 2012" "Brass" "Bioinformatics tools"
.SH NAME
brass-assemble \- find exact breakpoints via local assembly
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2012 Genome Research Ltd.
.\"
.\" Author: John Marshall <jm18@sanger.ac.uk>
.\"
.\" This file is part of the Brass package.
.\"
.\" Brass is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify it
.\" under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the
.\" Free Software Foundation; either version 3 of the License, or (at your
.\" option) any later version.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
.\" WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY
.\" or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License
.\" for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along
.\" with this program.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B brass-assemble
.RI [ OPTIONS ]...\&
.I BEDPE-FILE
.RI [ BAM-FILE ]...
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fBbrass-assemble\fP tool takes regions of interest from the specified
BEDPE file, attempts to assemble reads near each of these regions from the
specified BAM files, and scans the resulting assembly graphs for patterns
corresponding to the underlying breakpoints.
.P
The input BAM files must be sorted (by genomic location) and indexed.
Arguments denoting BAM files may be of the form
.IB BAMFILE : BAIFILE
specifying the index file to be used; otherwise, a \fB.bai\fP file must
be present alongside the BAM file in the usual way.
.P
The following options are accepted:
.TP 4n
.BI "-o " FILE
Write the list of events to \fIFILE\fP in the most-recently selected format.
This option may be repeated to write up to one output in each format; if it
is not used at all, a list of events is written to standard output in the
last-selected format.
.TP
.BI "-O " FORMAT
Write the next output stream in the specified \fIFORMAT\fP, which may
be \fBbedpe\fP, \fBtab\fP (the initial default), \fBvcf\fP, or \fBlog\fP
(for redirecting \fB-v\fP logging).
.TP
.BI "-r " TARGET
Connect to an Exonerate server at \fITARGET\fP.
.TP
.BI "-T " DIR
Use \fIDIR\fP for temporary working files.
Defaults to \fBworking\fP within the current directory.
.TP
.B -v
Display verbose progress logging; using multiple \fB-v\fP options further
increases the verbosity.
Messages are logged to a file specified via
.B -O log -o
.IR FILE ,
or otherwise to standard output if any other \fB-o\fP options have been given,
or to standard error otherwise.
.SH SEE ALSO
.IR brass-group (1),
.IR exonerate-server (1)
.TP
http://www.ebi.ac.uk/~zerbino/velvet/
The Velvet assembler for very short reads
.TP
http://genome.ucsc.edu/FAQ/FAQformat#format1
The BED file format, including track lines
.TP
http://code.google.com/p/bedtools/
The BEDTools User Manual describes the BEDPE format
